<h1><code>&lt;Operation Code&gt;</code></h1>
<p><code>&lt;Operation Code&gt;</code> is an open-source project founded by former U.S. Army Captain<a href="https://twitter.com/davidcmolina"> David Molina</a> with the mission of supporting Veterans transitioning to software careers.</br>

<h3>Goals</h3>
<p>Our first goal is ensuring the New GI Bill can be used to attend code schools, or digital vocational schools, that have sprung up across the United States to help fill the tech talent shortage. Currently, Veterans are forced to pay these costs out of pocket which is unfair and irresponsible.

<p>Ensuring the New GI Bill funds Veterans' code school tuition, room and board is our first objective.</p>

<p>Releasing the source code for this project  is meant to empower Veterans and all Americans everywhere to contribute their energy and time to this project. What could be better than the current greatest generation trained in modern software development?</p>

<h3>Requirements</h3>
<li>Ruby</li>
<li>Rails (see <a href="https://github.com/rails/rails">this</a> to get started)</li>

<p>This project is self-funded with small donations from friends, family and online supporters and built using <a href="http://rubyonrails.org/">Ruby on Rails. All donations are powered by <a href="http://www.moonclerk.com/"> MoonClerk</a> which waived the monthly transaction fee.</a>

<h3>Contributing</h3>
<p>Anyone is encouraged to contribute to the project by forking and submitting a pull request. Thanks in advance!</p>

<p>You can also support the project (and David Molina) with financial contributions via <a href="http://www.moonclerk.com/"> MoonClerk</a>. <a href="http://opcod3.herokuapp.com/donate"> Donate now</a>.

<h3>License</a>
<p>Ruby on Rails is released under the <a href="http://opensource.org/licenses/MIT">MIT License</a>.</p>

<h3>Spread the Word</a>
<p>A community-driven movement to support Veterans' ability to attend a code school of their choice will take all of us. Every comment, suggestion or opinion we get advances <code>&lt;Operation Code&gt;</code> just a little bit further.</p></br>

Cheers,</br>
<a href="https://twitter.com/davidcmolina">Molina</a>